Dear Professor  

I am Mukhar Jain a sophomore, majoring in Biochemical Engineering and Biotechnology, at the Indian Institute of Technology Delhi, India's top-ranked Engineering Institution.
I want to broaden my research experience and wish to be an intern in your lab next summer (May to July 2019) and pursue research under your guidance and as a member of your team.

Your research Group focus on  Stem cell analysis, Gene expression Dynamics I have been following this and studying about this topic and I find it Fascinating and something which could be a solution to many diseases.  I would be indebted to you if you give me the opportunity of working under your supervision. 

The rigorous training here at IIT has been useful in building my analytical and mathematical skills along with giving me a sound base in topics like Computational Biology and Biochemistry.  I am currently pursuing courses on Microbiology, Mass and Energy Balance, Transport phenomena and Material Science and Engineering 
Apart from these, I am also studying Data structures and algorithm
I am a fast learner with an inquisitive mind and strong problem-solving skills.  My ongoing education in IIT-Delhi's culturally rich, demanding and challenging environment continues to enrich me and to build my skills and curiosity. I have consistently maintained strong academic credentials throughout and was among the top 6,000 students accepted into the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology from an application pool of 1.5 million students. 
This Semester, I am working on Improving the Efficiency of Protein function prediction from the Sequence and structure using machine learning algorithms under professor B Jayaram of IIT Delhi. I am particularly keen to work in an international context and gain more from the cultural exchange and experiences during next summers. After completing my undergraduate studies, I intend to pursue research in Biotechnology and enrol for a master or PhD program.

I have also undertaken a wide array of projects during my first year which has equipped me with a notable quantitative aptitude, taught me to work collaboratively in teams and meaningfully contribute to tasks. 
These include robotics projects such as four-wheel Mecannum drive, Autonomous line following maze solver and a four-legged robot which mimics a Horse, Furthermore, as a team, I am also Representing IIT Delhi on the international Forum of ABU Robocon.

I am enthusiastic about my departmental research work and am very keen on exploring the exciting research options and immense possibilities that exist globally. again I would be grateful to you if you give me the opportunity of assisting you. I would ensure that I live up to your expectations with unfaltering sincerity and hard work.

Appended herewith is my curriculum vitae for your perusal. I shall be glad to furnish any further information if required.
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1o1js2ILTfNDqU6knuR94UgREjlHdDwHh/view?usp=sharing
In anticipation of a positive response,

Yours Truly
